# PosePredictSystem
Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps is an ongoing inflammatory condition that affects the nasal sinuses and upper airways. It is characterized bypersistent inflammation and the growth of nasal polyps in the nasal cavity and sinuses. The treatment options for this condition include medication therapy or surgical removal of the polyps. However, the exact cause of polyp formation is still unknown.
 
The aim of these experiments was to estimate the POSE values after polyp removal surgery, at the 6-month and 12-month postoperative intervals. To achieve this, we utilized Decision Tree and Random Forest algorithms for classification and regression analysis. The first chapter introduces the study’s objectives and some analysis of the existing literature, and explains the underlying motivation. In the second chapter, we provide a comprehensive overview of the subject, emphasizing the importance of the data used and the predicted outcomes from a medical perspective and a ML algorithms perspective. The third chapter delves into the theory, introducing machine learning and its applications in medicine, and provides a detailed explanation of the Decision Tree and RandomForest models. Chapter four examines the features used in the experiments, including the preprocessing steps taken to ensure their suitability. We also document the conducted experiments, each with its own unique characteristics. Additionally, we discuss the development of the PosePredict system, a user-friendly website that allows healthcare professionals to utilize the generated models.
 
The paper presents all the conducted experiments, involving both classification and regression analyses. These experiments were performed simultaneously using both Decision Tree and Random Forest models. We also introduce PosePredict, a website that takes input data and uses the Random Forest model to predict the POSE value. The results obtained showed an accuracy of at least 80% in predicting these values. Random Forest consistently outperformed Decision Tree in terms of performance. The experiments using classification also yielded better results.
